### This is an experimental research processing code developed at Cooperative Institute for Research in the Atmosphere (CIRA)/ Colorado State University (CSU) to display NOAA GOES-R GLM Level-2 LCFA Group Energy/Count matched with GOES-R ABI sectors for CIRA's SLIDER, which includes realtime GLM L2 LCFA data download, post-processing to remap GLM data onto ABI pixels, and plot imgages using Noh's violet light color table (energy)/rainbow colors (count). All CSU/CIRA products are considered experimental products. See the Experimental Products Disclaimer below. 

**Author: Yoo-Jeong (YJ) Noh, Yoo-Jeong.Noh@colostate.edu (developed in 2017-2018, release 17 Oct 2024 internally at CIRA, and updated to use newly a few Python codes replacing the original IDL codes on 30 July 2025)**

**Main scripts for real time runs for CIRA's SLIDER (https://rammb-slider.cira.colostate.edu):**

1) run_goes_glm_extract.sh: bash script to to extract group lat/lon/area/energy from the NetCDF L2 to text output, which you can run every min or modify as needed

**read_write_GLM.pro**: IDL code to extract group lat/lon/area/energy from the NetCDF L2 LCFA to text output (per min), which will be used for resampling (read_write_GLM.py is a Python sample code converted from this IDL code; IDL 8.0/Python 3.8.8 or greater) 

2) run_GLM_SLIDER_display.sh (for full-disk RadF and CONUS RadC)

3) run_GLM_SLIDER_meso.sh (for two meso sectors with moving naviation info obtained from each ABI L1 netcdf file) - To be updated!

(Note to uesrs should change the sector and satellite number for GOES-16-19 in the scripts as needed and see the sample crontab time considering the input data ingest and processing time for each sector.)

Additionally, the naviation info files fixed for RadC (CONUS) and RadF (fulldisk): ABI_Rad?_proj_*.txt and GLM limit boundary limit information files (glm_fulldisk_limits*.txt). Please note that the corresponding files should be symbolic-linked for the specific GOES satellite (GOES-E or GOES-W for GOES-16 - GOES-19). 

**Sub directories:**

1) color_tables: color bars for SLIDER including Noh's viloet light color rgb file (inspired by a lightning photo from the International Space Station - thanks to Steve Miller) and RGB color code text file. Note the group area count colorbar was generated by IDL color table=34 (rainbow) which might not be the same exactly with Python plot version.

2) resample_codes: Fortran codes for GLM-ABI remapping and processing/propagating energy/count from each centroid point over effective areas. Use "compile.sh" to compile and resample_glm_slider.exe will be found in one upper directory ../ (thanks to Kyle Hilburn and Natalie Tourville, CIRA/CSU, for their help to initiate the original remaping onto ABI domains)

**NOAA GOES-R GLM L2 LCFA data info:  https://www.ncei.noaa.gov/access/metadata/landing-page/bin/iso?id=gov.noaa.ncdc:C01527
**NOAA GOES-R ABI L1b data info:  https://www.ncei.noaa.gov/access/metadata/landing-page/bin/iso?id=gov.noaa.ncdc:C01501

### This program is free software. Distribution unlimited.This program is distributed WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY. 
Please Note: This is an experimental research processing code developed at CIRA/CSU to display GLM Level-2 Group Energy/Count matched with GOES-R ABI sectors for CIRA's SLIDER.
### Experimental Products Disclaimer - CIRA/CSU: All CSU CIRA products are considered experimental products.

Colorado State University "University" Experimental Products are provided strictly "as-is" without any other warranty or guaranty of any kind. All other warranties, express and implied, are hereby expressly disclaimed INCLUDING WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. University shall not be liable for any indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive loss or damage of any kind, including but not limited to lost profits (regardless of whether or not University knows or should know of the possibility of such loss or damages). Any users of this product shall hold harmless and indemnify Colorado State University, the Cooperative Institute for Research in the Atmosphere, and its officers, agents and employees against any and all loss, damage, injury, liability and claims for injury or death of any person.
